[RF-Docs] [ci-skip] Update the Rails on Rack guide (#56918)
rails/rails: guides/source/rails_on_rack.md

Rails on Rack
=============

This guide covers Rails' integration with [Rack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rack_(web_server_interface)). After reading this guide, you will know:

* How Rails uses Rack middleware to build an application stack.
* Action Pack's internal middleware stack.
* How to configure and change the middleware stack.
* How to insert your own middleware into the stack.
* The underlying Rack API exposed by Rails controllers.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> NOTE: This guide assumes an understanding of the Rack specification and associated concepts such as a Rack application, middleware stack, and `Rack::Builder`. See the [Resources](#resources) section below for further information.

Author: Hmm, yeah I like this idea in general, but I'd still like to have the 3 resources as a list for clarity. This text is in a `NOTE` block which as far as I can tell, can't contain multiple block elements, so we can't have a list in it?

If that's the case then I'm inclined to leave the resources where they are, but if there's a way we can show a list within the `NOTE` block, then happy to have it all in one place.

class AuthenticateRequest
  # ...
end

class App
  def call(env)
    [200, { "content-type" => "text/plain" }, ["Hello World"]]
  end
end

use AuthenticateRequest
run App.new
```

This DSL to construct Rack applications is provided by [`Rack::Builder`][]. For further information about Rack, consult the [Rack specification](https://rack.github.io/rack/main/SPEC_rdoc.html) and [Rack Website](https://rack.github.io/rack/).

[`Rack::Builder`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Builder.html

Rails on Rack
-------------

### The Primary Rack Object

`Rails.application` is the *primary Rack application object* of a Rails
application. A Rack compliant web server should use the `Rails.application` object to serve a Rails application.

### Starting the Rails Server

Rails subclasses `Rackup::Server` to create `Rails::Server`. `bin/rails server` instantiates a `Rails::Server` object and starts the web server.

```ruby
Rails::Server.new.tap do |server|
  require APP_PATH
  Dir.chdir(Rails.application.root)
  server.start
end
```

See the [initialization guide](initialization.html#rails-server-start) for further information on how the server starts up.

Action Dispatcher Middleware Stack

> ----------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action Dispatch Middleware Stack
--------------------------------
```

Rails on Rack
=============

This guide covers Rails' integration with [Rack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rack_(web_server_interface)). After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Rack is and why Rails uses it.
* How Rails uses Rack middleware to build an application stack.
* Action Pack's internal middleware stack.
* How to configure and change the middleware stack.
* The underlying Rack API exposed by Rails controllers.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction to Rack
--------------------

> Rack provides a minimal, modular, and adaptable interface for developing web applications in Ruby. By wrapping HTTP requests and responses using a conventional structure, it unifies the API for web servers, web frameworks, and software in between (known as middleware) into a single method call.

Reviewer: Nitpick. I know this is copied from the Rack README but can we maybe remove some adjectives here to make it less sales-y? Is it still `minimal`? And I'm not sure what `adaptable` means in the context of the guide:
```suggestion
Rack provides a modular interface for developing web applications in Ruby. By wrapping HTTP requests and responses using a conventional structure, it unifies the API for web servers, web frameworks, and software in between (known as middleware) into a single method call.
```

```ruby
class AuthenticateRequest
  def initialize(app)
    @app = app
  end

  def call(env)
    if authenticated?(env["HTTP_AUTHORIZATION"])
      @app.call(env)
    else
      [401, { "content-type" => "text/plain" }, ["Authentication failed"]]
    end
  end

  def authenticated?(token)
    # ...
  end
end
```

Middleware is added to a Rack app with a `use` call when initializing the application:

```ruby
class AuthenticateRequest
  # ...
end

class App
  def call(env)
    [200, { "content-type" => "text/plain" }, ["Hello World"]]
  end
end

use AuthenticateRequest
run App.new
```

This DSL to construct Rack applications is provided by [`Rack::Builder`][]. For further information about Rack, consult the [Rack specification](https://rack.github.io/rack/main/SPEC_rdoc.html) and [Rack Website](https://rack.github.io/rack/).

[`Rack::Builder`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Builder.html

Rails on Rack
-------------

### The Primary Rack Object

`Rails.application` is the *primary Rack application object* of a Rails

> application. A Rack compliant web server should use `Rails.application` object to serve a Rails application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
application. A Rack compliant web server should use the `Rails.application` object to serve a Rails application.
```

### Starting the Rails Server

Rails subclasses `Rackup::Server` to create `Rails::Server`. `bin/rails server` instantiates a `Rails::Server` object and starts the web server.

```ruby
Rails::Server.new.tap do |server|
  require APP_PATH
  Dir.chdir(Rails.application.root)
  server.start
end
```

> See the [initilization guide](initialization.html#rails-server-start) for further information on how the server starts up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [initialization guide](initialization.html#rails-server-start) for further information on how the server starts up.
```

end
```

See the [initilization guide](initialization.html#rails-server-start) for further information on how the server starts up.

Action Dispatcher Middleware Stack
----------------------------------

`ActionDispatch::MiddlewareStack` is Rails' equivalent of `Rack::Builder`. It's built with more flexibility and features to meet Rails' requirements.

`Rails::Application` uses `ActionDispatch::MiddlewareStack` to combine internal and external middleware to build the stack which forms a complete Rack application using Rails.

### Inspecting the Middleware Stack

> View the middleware stack in use by running:

Author: Nice catch :)

run MyApp::Application.routes
```

> The [Internal Middleware Stack](#internal-middleware-stack) section below summarizes the default middleware components depicated above.

Reviewer: Should this be `depicted` instead?
```suggestion
The [Internal Middleware Stack](#internal-middleware-stack) section below summarizes the default middleware components depicted above.
```

#### `Rack::Runtime`

[`Rack::Runtime`][] sets an `X-Runtime` header, containing the time (in seconds) taken to execute the request.

[`Rack::Runtime`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Runtime.html

#### `Rack::Sendfile`

[`Rack::Sendfile`] sets a server specific `X-Sendfile` header. This is useful for accelerated file sending if you use a reverse proxy server like Apache or Nginx. For example it can be set to 'X-Sendfile' for Apache. Configure this via [`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`][] option.

[`Rack::Sendfile`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Sendfile.html
[`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`]: configuring.html#config-action-dispatch-x-sendfile-header

#### `Rack::TempfileReaper`

[`Rack::TempfileReaper`][] cleans up tempfiles used to buffer multipart requests.

[`Rack::TempfileReaper`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/TempfileReaper.html

#### `Rails::Rack::Logger`

[`Rails::Rack::Logger`][] notifies the logs that the request has begun. After the request is complete, flushes all the logs.

[`Rails::Rack::Logger`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Rack/Logger.html

TIP: You can use any of the above middleware in a custom Rack stack.

> Custom Middleware

Reviewer: This section comes after adding middleware. i think the adding middleware section makes more sense if we add our own custom middleware. Maybe those sections should be combined? First create the middleware, then show how it could bee added?

Author: It's a tricky one but I think we should leave it as is. Anecdotally, folks are far more likely to add pre-built middleware from Rack or other libraries than write their own. 

In my mind, custom middleware is an advanced topic so I prefer to leave it where it is, further down in the guide.

-----------------

> Your Rails app can implement and include custom middleware as per your requirements.

Reviewer: This sentence is pretty formal. 
Maybe something like:
```suggestion
You can create your own middleware and include it in your Rails app. 
```

Custom middleware files should be placed in the `lib/` folder and `require`d manually since middleware is not auto-reloaded.

### Creating Middleware

> Creating a new `lib/middleware/` folder and excluding it from the autoload path is recommended.

Reviewer: This sentence and example seem to belong with the previous paragrph which explains why the folder shouldn’t be reloaded.

Also the order seems somewhat backwards to me. To me it seems nicer to start with the actual middleware, then follow with the “boring” autoload parts.

Author: Yeah good call, amended it

```ruby
# lib/middleware/extract_locale.rb

module RackMiddleware
  class ExtractLocale
    def initialize(app)
      @app = app
    end

    def call(env)
      request = ActionDispatch::Request.new(env)
      if request.params["locale"].present?
        env["myapp.locale"] = env["action_dispatch.request.query_parameters"]["locale"]

        env["action_dispatch.request.query_parameters"].delete("locale")
        env["action_dispatch.request.parameters"].delete("locale")
      end

      @app.call(env)
    end
  end
end
```

### Adding Custom Middleware to the Stack

Custom middleware can be added in `application.rb`

```ruby
# config/application.rb

# ...

require_relative "../lib/middleware/extract_locale"

module MyApp
  class Application < Rails::Application
    # ...

    config.middleware.use RackMiddleware::ExtractLocale

    # ...
  end
end
```

or within a standalone initializer.

```ruby
# config/initializers/extract_locale.rb

require "#{Rails.root.join("lib", "middleware", "extract_locale")}"

Rails.application.config.middleware.use RackMiddleware::ExtractLocale
```

> Advanced Usage

Reviewer: Maybe we can use a more descriptive title here?
For example:
```suggestion
Calling Rack from your Application
```

Or:
```suggestion
Accessing Rack in Rails
```

It’s also possible to use Rack inside your routes. There is a section on this in the Routing guide. Maybe add that as well?

Author: Changed to "Accessing Rack Internals in Rails". Hmmm, let me have a think about the routing stuff ... I'm not keen to duplicate content so might just link to it.

config.middleware.move_after Lifo::ShowExceptions, ActionDispatch::ShowExceptions
```

#### Deleting Middleware

Delete middleware using `config.middleware.delete`.

```ruby
# config/application.rb
config.middleware.delete Rack::Runtime
```

Using `delete!` will raise an error if the middleware component doesn't exist.

```ruby
# config/application.rb

config.middleware.delete! Some::NonExistentMiddleware
```

### Reloading the Middleware Stack

The middleware stack is loaded once and isn't monitored for changes. Restart your server after making changes to your middleware stack.

> ### Internal Middleware Stack

Reviewer: I find this a bit hard to read now with all the red:
<img width="856" height="362" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/918c03ca-8981-4f2c-8fb5-4d08312435f1" />

What do you tink about making "Interal Middleware Stack" a top section (so the headers become black) instead?
We do this for the Caching guide as well and I think it's a bit easier on the eyes:

<img width="866" height="422" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5a651dc9-de62-4ef2-9ad9-86e28291038d" />

https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html#other-cache-stores

Author: Ahhh I was reading the guides in dark mode so I never saw this issue. I really don't want to make it a top-level section for UI reasons. In the logical document structure, it should be a sub-section under "Action Dispatch Middleware Stack".

In dark mode, all the headings are white. I wonder if there's a case to replicate that in light mode and have all headings black? 

If the red headings are causing issues in multiple places, then I would say that's the problem, and we shouldn't restructure our documents to fit this design decision.

Reviewer: Hmm, yeah I agree we shouldn't restructure the guide to fit design decisions.
Let's keep this as it was.

config.middleware.move_after Lifo::ShowExceptions, ActionDispatch::ShowExceptions
```

#### Deleting Middleware

Delete middleware using `config.middleware.delete`.

```ruby
# config/application.rb
config.middleware.delete Rack::Runtime
```

Using `delete!` will raise an error if the middleware component doesn't exist.

```ruby
# config/application.rb

config.middleware.delete! Some::NonExistentMiddleware
```

### Reloading the Middleware Stack

The middleware stack is loaded once and isn't monitored for changes. Restart your server after making changes to your middleware stack.

### Internal Middleware Stack

> Much of Action Controller's functionality is implemented as middleware. The following list explains the purpose of each of them:

Reviewer: This list is now sorted by how middleware is loaded in a new Rails application, which seems somewhat arbitrary and is suspected to change. In the "Configuring" guide and the "Instrumentation" guide we [sort alphabetically](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_support_instrumentation.html#rails-framework-hooks)
I think we should sort alphabetically here as well.

Author: Yeah good shout

#### [`ActionDispatch::HostAuthorization`][]

> Prevents DNS rebinding attacks by restricting the hosts to which a request can be sent. See the [configuration guide](configuring.html#actiondispatch-hostauthorization) for configuration instructions.

Reviewer: I think it's great that we link to the middlewares.
All headers are currently converted to anchor tags automatically.
Linking to somewhere else in the header breaks this convention.
What do you think about linking in the text instead?
Although I find starting the paragraph with the title a bit meh, I think it improves the opening sentence a bit because it can be read/copied without the context of the title.

```suggestion
#### `ActionDispatch::HostAuthorization`

[`ActionDispatch::HostAuthorization`][] prevents DNS rebinding attacks by restricting the hosts to which a request can be sent. See the [configuration guide](configuring.html#actiondispatch-hostauthorization) for configuration instructions.
```

Author: Yeah fair enough ... I can't think of a better way than starting the sentence with the name of the middleware either so will do that

[`ActionDispatch::HostAuthorization`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/HostAuthorization.html

#### [`Rack::Sendfile`][]

> Sets server specific `X-Sendfile header`. Configure this via [`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`][] option.

Reviewer: I think we can expand a little here:
```suggestion
Sets server specific `X-Sendfile header`. This is useful for accelerated file sending if you use a reverse proxy server like Apache or Nginx. For example it can be set to 'X-Sendfile' for Apache. Configure this via [`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`][] option.
```

[`Rack::Sendfile`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Sendfile.html
[`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`]: configuring.html#config-action-dispatch-x-sendfile-header

#### [`ActionDispatch::Static`][]

Serves static files from the `public` folder. Disabled when [`config.public_file_server.enabled`][] is `false`.

[`ActionDispatch::Static`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Static.html
[`config.public_file_server.enabled`]: configuring.html#config-public-file-server-enabled

#### [`Rack::Lock`][]

> Sets `env["rack.multithread"]` to `false` and wraps the application within a mutex.

Reviewer: I think the Rack::Lock documentation has a better description that explains the use-case and less the implementation:
```suggestion
Locks every request inside a mutex, so that every request will effectively be executed synchronously.
```

[`Rack::Lock`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Lock.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::Executor`][]

Ensures thread safe code reloading during development.

[`ActionDispatch::Executor`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Executor.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::ServerTiming`][]

Sets a [`Server-Timing`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Server-Timing) header containing performance metrics for the request.

[`ActionDispatch::ServerTiming`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/ServerTiming.html

#### [`ActiveSupport::Cache::Strategy::LocalCache::Middleware`][]

> An in-memory cache. This cache is not thread safe.

Reviewer: The middleware isn't the cache, but a middleware wrapper for the cache (also copied more information from the API docs):
```suggestion
Middleware for the in-memory local cache. This cache is not thread safe and is intended only for serving as a temporary memory cache for a single thread.
```

[`ActiveSupport::Cache::Strategy::LocalCache::Middleware`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/Strategy/LocalCache.html

#### [`Rack::Runtime`][]

Sets an `X-Runtime` header, containing the time (in seconds) taken to execute the request.

[`Rack::Runtime`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Runtime.html

#### [`Rack::MethodOverride`][]

Allows the method to be overridden if `params[:_method]` is set. This is how Rails supports `PUT`, `PATCH`, and `DELETE` HTTP methods since they are not browser native.

[`Rack::MethodOverride`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/MethodOverride.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::RequestId`][]

> Makes a unique `X-Request-Id` header available to the response and enables the `ActionDispatch::Request#request_id` method.

Reviewer: I think the header is set on the request.
I've also added some copy from the API docs to describe what it's used for:
```suggestion
Makes a unique `X-Request-Id` header available to the request and enables the `ActionDispatch::Request#request_id` method.

The unique request id can be used to trace a request end-to-end and would typically end up being part of log files from multiple pieces of the stack.
```

#### [`ActionDispatch::RemoteIp`][]

Checks for IP spoofing attacks.

[`ActionDispatch::RemoteIp`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/RemoteIp.html

#### [`Propshaft::QuietAssets`][]

Suppresses logger output for asset requests.

[`Propshaft::QuietAssets`]: https://github.com/rails/propshaft/blob/main/lib/propshaft/quiet_assets.rb

#### [`Rails::Rack::Logger`][]

Notifies the logs that the request has begun. After the request is complete, flushes all the logs.

[`Rails::Rack::Logger`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Rails/Rack/Logger.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::ShowExceptions`][]

Rescues any exception returned by the application and calls an exceptions app that will wrap it in a format for the end user.

[`ActionDispatch::ShowExceptions`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/ShowExceptions.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::DebugExceptions`][]

Responsible for logging exceptions and showing a debugging page if the request is local.

[`ActionDispatch::DebugExceptions`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/DebugExceptions.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::ActionableExceptions`][]

> Provides a way to dispatch actions from Rails' error pages.

Reviewer: Similar to `DebugExceptions` we should probably mention this only applies to local requests:
```suggestion
Provides a way to dispatch actions from Rails' error pages if the request is local.
```

[`ActionDispatch::ActionableExceptions`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/files/actionpack/lib/action_dispatch/middleware/actionable_exceptions_rb.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::Reloader`][]

Provides prepare and cleanup callbacks, intended to assist with code reloading during development.

[`ActionDispatch::Reloader`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Reloader.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::Callbacks`][]

Provides callbacks to be executed before and after dispatching the request.

[`ActionDispatch::Callbacks`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Callbacks.html

#### [`ActiveRecord::Migration::CheckPending`][]

> Checks pending migrations and raises `ActiveRecord::PendingMigrationError` if any migrations are pending.

Reviewer: I think  we should mention how this can be configured (the link to the configuration doesn't work as it seems this setting is not properlty document in the configuration guide)
```suggestion
Checks pending migrations and raises `ActiveRecord::PendingMigrationError` if any migrations are pending if [`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`][] is set to `:page_load`.

[`config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header`]: configuring.html#config-action-record-migration-error
```

[`ActiveRecord::Migration::CheckPending`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Migration/CheckPending.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::Cookies`][]

> Sets cookies for the request.

Reviewer: This middleware also writes cookie data on the response:
```suggestion
Reads cookie data from the request and writes cookie data on the response.
```

[`ActionDispatch::Cookies`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Cookies.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::Session::CookieStore`][]

Responsible for storing the session in cookies.

[`ActionDispatch::Session::CookieStore`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Session/CookieStore.html

#### [`ActionDispatch::Flash`][]

Sets up the flash keys. Only available if [`config.session_store`][] is set to a value.

[`ActionDispatch::Flash`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/Flash.html
[`config.session_store`]: configuring.html#config-session-store

#### [`ActionDispatch::ContentSecurityPolicy::Middleware`][]

Provides a DSL to configure a `Content-Security-Policy` header. See [Securing Rails Applications](security.html#content-security-policy-header) for further information.

[`ActionDispatch::ContentSecurityPolicy::Middleware`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/ContentSecurityPolicy/Middleware.html

#### [`Rack::Head`][]

Returns an empty body for all `HEAD` requests. It leaves all other requests unchanged.

[`Rack::Head`]: https://rack.github.io/rack/3.2/Rack/Head.html

#### [`Rack::ConditionalGet`][]

> Adds support for "Conditional `GET`" so that server responds with nothing if the page wasn't changed.

Reviewer: We can expand on this a bit as well (mostly copied from the Rack docs):
```suggestion
Enables "Conditional `GET`" requests using if-none-match and if-modified-since. If the requested page wasn't changed returns a 304 Not Modified and an empty body.
```
